Tagtog, a user-friendly web application, was used for the annotations.
Although tagtog is a commercial application, we only used the freely-available raw text annotation features.
Each EBM-PICO document uploaded to tagtog had to be annotated with the "Study type" entity. 
This annotation task aims to capture the Study type and design information, mainly phrases or words explicitly describing the clinical study design information or terms that hint about the study design without explicitly mentioning design information.
To annotate the document, go through it entirely, check for the following information and mark as much information as possible.


- A clinical study can be either a randomized controlled trial or an observational study. Mark this clinical study type information.
- Were the study participants randomly divided and allocated to the intervention groups? Then mark this information. Do NOT mark the details on how the patients were randomized. For example, if they were randomized using "the participants were randomly assigned into the groups using computer-generated random numbers", mark the phrase "randomly assigned" but do not mark the information that the participants were randomly assigned "using computer-generated random numbers".
- Preliminary information about the concealment of group allocation should also be marked. It is usually referred to in one of two ways. I) Trials could report blinding information by designating trial characteristics as single-blind, double-blind, triple-blind or quadruple-blind. II) The studies could mention the groups of individuals in the trial that were blinded, e.g. participants, administrators or surgeons or investigators, assessors, and evaluators. Mark this information. Do NOT include information about how the masking was performed.
- Mark whether the study was a (placebo) controlled study, i.e. either a control intervention or placebo was used. If a study is not described as a "placebo-controlled" study, but there is a mention of a control/sham or control group/sham group, mark the generic phrases. Do not mark the exact control intervention name (e.g. Saline, Sugar pills) because that semantically falls under the "Intervention" class not "Study type".
- Clinical trials involving new drugs or treatments are commonly classified into five phases. Mark information about the trial phase. For instance, "phase 1/2", "phase iv".
- Include other essential study design attributes like whether a study followed a cross-over, parallel, cluster, factorial trial design, etc. The attributes are not limited to these.
- Mark the information about the number of arms in a clinical trial study. For example, a study can be two-arm, four-arm, etc. In a two-arm study, the participants are randomised to either the control or active intervention arms.
- Do not mark punctuation like a comma or conjunction connectors like "and" between the elements of study design. Each element of the study design is meant to represent a semantically separate entity. For example, in the sentence "A cross-sectional and prospective study was performed." Mark the term 'cross-sectional' and 'prospective study' but do not mark the conjunction "and" between them.
